CloudWatch and X-Ray integration tutorial (#211)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/integration/aws-cloudwatch/README.md

# Integrate Kyma with AWS CloudWatch

## Overview 

The Kyma Telemetry module supports you in integrating with observability backends in a convenient way. This example outlines how to integrate with [AWS CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch) as a backend. As CloudWatch is not supporting OTLP ingestion natively, it will require to deploy the [AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry](https://aws-otel.github.io) additionally. 

![overview](../../assets/cloudwatch-integration-diagram.svg)

## Prerequisistes 

- Kyma as the target deployment environment
- AWS account with permissions to create new users and security policies

> - Helm 3.x if you want to deploy open-telemetry sample application

Author: Redundant, remove

> - Helm 3.x if you want to deploy open-telemetry sample application

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Installation

### Preparation

> 1. Export your Namespace as a variable. Replace `{NAMESPACE}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Export your Namespace as a variable. Replace the `{NAMESPACE}` placeholder in the following command and run it:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f ./resources/logpipeline.yaml
    ```
1. Enable a TracePipeline in the cluster so that all components have a well-defined OTLP based push URL in the cluster to send trace data to. For that replace `{NAMESPACE}` and apply a TracePipeline by calling 
    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f ./resources/tracepipeline.yaml
    ```
1. Enable a MetricPipeline in the cluster so that all components have a well-defined OTLP based push URL in the cluster to send metric data to. Also it will activate annotation based metric scraping for workloads. For that replace `{NAMESPACE}` and apply a MetricPipeline by calling
    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f ./resources/metricpipeline.yaml
    ```

## Verifying the results by deploying sample apps

In order to verify the results of CloudWatch and X-Ray we will deploy sample applications for each service accordingly.

### Verifying CloudWatch traces, logs, and metrics arrival 

> In order to deploy sample app which generates traces that we took from [aws-otel tutorial](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/sample-app.html):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample app that generates traces in the following example is documented by AWS in their documentation: [Deploy a sample application to test the AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry Collector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/sample-app.html).
```

> 1. Deploy traffic generator app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the traffic generator app:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -n ${KYMA_NS} -f ./sample-app/traffic-generator.yaml
    ```

> 1. Deploy an app using 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Deploy an app:
```

which app? any app? the user's own app?

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -n ${KYMA_NS} -f ./sample-app/deployment.yaml
    ```

> 1. Port-forward an application in order to be able to access it by calling 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To access the application, port-forward it: 
```

    ```bash
    kubectl -n ${KYMA_NS} port-forward svc/sample-app 4567
    ```

> 1. Make some requests to the application like `localhost:4567` or `localhost:4567/outgoing-http-call`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make some requests to the application, for example, `localhost:4567` or `localhost:4567/outgoing-http-call`.
```

> 1. Go to the `AWS X-Ray` tab, and check out the `Traces` section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **AWS X-Ray** > **Traces**.
```

> 1. To verify the logs, you can go to `AWS CloudWatch`, then open the `Log groups` and select your cluster. Now, you can open `aws-integration.sample-app-*` and check out the logs of your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To verify the logs, go to **AWS CloudWatch** > **Log groups** and select your cluster. Now, you can open `aws-integration.sample-app-*` and view the logs of your application.
```

> 1. To verify metrics, you can go to the `All metrics`, and open the `aws-integration/otel-collector`

Reviewer 3: Does this really show the application metrics or the otel collector metrics?

> 1. To verify metrics, you can go to the `All metrics`, and open the `aws-integration/otel-collector`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To verify metrics, go to **All metrics** and open the `aws-integration/otel-collector`.
```

> ### Creating the dashboard to observe incoming metrics and logs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create the dashboard to observe incoming metrics and logs
```

> In order to create a dashboard, you should:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

not needed

> 1. Go to the `Dashboards` section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Dashboards** > **Create dashboard** and enter the name.
```

> 1. Click `Create dashboard` and enter the name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Select the widget type and click `Next`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the widget type and click **Next**.
```

> 1. Select what you want to observe, either metrics or logs, and click `Next`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select what you want to observe, either metrics or logs, and click **Next**.
```

> 1. Decide on which metrics and logs to include and click `Create widget`

Reviewer 2: In the previous step it was either metrics or logs, so now I'm confused by the "and". Can users really select _both_ here?

```suggestion
1. Decide which metrics or logs to include and click **Create widget**.
```

## AWS OTEL Collector and TraceId specifics

> Currently, there is no mechanism to properly convert TraceId from W3C context into the AWS TraceId format. Because of that, your application should emit traces with ids of the format compatible with AWS TraceId. In order to do that, you can use one of the available ADOT(AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry) SDKs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, there is no mechanism to convert TraceId from W3C context into the AWS TraceId format. Because of that, your application should emit traces with IDs of the format compatible with AWS TraceId. To do that, you can use one of the available ADOT(AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry) SDKs:
```
